Shoumik Chowdhury
Queens, NY https://shoumikchow.com
Profiles  Github
shoumikchow
 LinkedIn
shoumikchow
Experience Andium New York, NY
Machine Learning Engineer July 2021 - Present
Founding ML Engineer, working on creating several products related to classification,
object detection and segmentation
Products include flare monitoring service, tank monitoring service using infrared
images, liquid leak detection, fire detection and asset tracking. These are used for
performance, security, regulatory and compliance purposes. Some technologies and
tools used include Pytorch, Tensorflow, AWS, Postgres, RabbitMQ, Redis, FastAPI, etc.
Working on the ML platform to facilitate 3 million+ daily inferences, and helping to
creating a multi-cloud, multi-region system.
Creating agentic LLM chatbots that end-users interact with to retrieve information or
create workflows (alerts, etc.)
Orchestrating and streamlining the machine learning lifecycle, from data gathering,
ingest, training, deployment and monitoring. This involves talking to stakeholders,
working with 3rd party vendors for labeling, working with APIs for monitoring, etc.
Performed exploratory research on deploying models to edge devices (Jetson Nano,
Xavier, Orin)
https://andium.com
Gaze Dhaka, Bangladesh
Machine Learning Engineer February 2019 - July 2019
Developed and devised novel deep learning models for license plate recognition and
face recognition and integrated them to the backend
Worked on projects which have been deployed with public entities and private
conglomerates like Dhaka Metropolitan Police, Meghna Group of Industries, etc.
Mentored two interns
Kolpokoushol Remote
Research Assistant February 2017 - January 2019
Worked on applications of machine learning and network analysis. Published a short
paper at NeurIPS while working here.
https://kolpokoushol.org/
Panacea Live Dhaka, Bangladesh
Backend Developer April 2017 - July 2018
Designed and developed many new features to the system, including an entirely new
vertical for the product
Made the system more robust, including a ~400% increase in speed of a critical process
in the workflow for businesses. Performed data analytics on user retention and user
churn rate
https://panacea.live/
Education University of Houston MS
Computer Science 2021
BRAC University BS
Computer Science 2016
Projects bbox-visualizer
A PyPI package that helps the users draw bounding boxes around objects, without doing
the clumsy math that one would need to do for positioning the labels. It also has a few
different types of visualizations that can be used to label objects after identifying them.
1M+ downloads and used by major AI companies like Landing AI
Reached the front page of Hacker News and was featured on the Python Bytes podcast.
https://github.com/shoumikchow/bbox-visualizer
Other projects can be found on my Github
Skills Languages
Tools
Frameworks and Libraries
Publications Statement networks: a power structure narrative as depicted by newspapers 2018
NeurIPS
Shoumik Sharar Chowdhury, Nazmus Saquib, Niamat Zawad, Manash Kumar Mandal, Syed
Haque. In ML for the Developing World (ML4D) workshop at Advances in Neural
Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS 2018)
https://arxiv.org/pdf/1812.03632
Sonar-based SLAM Using Occupancy Grid Mapping and Dead Reckoning 2018
TENCON
Muhammad S. A. Khan, Shoumik Sharar Chowdhury, Nafis Niloy, Fatema Tuz Zohra Aurin,
Tarem Ahmed. In TENCON 2018 - 2018 IEEE Region 10 Conference (TENCON 2018)
https://shoumikchow.com/files/tencon2018.pdf
Python, SQL, Java
MongoDB, Redis, gRPC, Docker, ElasticSearch, git, Latex, AWS, RabbitMQ, MLflow
PyTorch, Tensorflow, Transformers, Pandas, OpenCV, Scikit-learn, Numpy, spaCy, Flask,
FastAPI
